README.md, before:

# SurfaceVolumeMeshingToolKit

Surface Volume Meshing Toolkit (SVMTK) is a Python frontend for specific 2D and 3D mesh generation methods in the Computational Geometry Algorithms Library [(CGAL)](https://www.cgal.org/).

SVMTK was designed to create volume meshes of soft organic tissue surfaces, like the human brain, with the option to repair unphysical errors on the surfaces.


## Installation

First, ensure that all of the prerequisites needed by SVMTK are installed.  Installation instructions for all of the SVMTK requirements can be found in [REQUIREMENTS.md](REQUIREMENTS.md)

Next, clone the SVMT repository by

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/SVMTK/SVMTK
```

If you have already installed SVMTK you can update your installation with the following command executed in the /SVMTK directory

```
git pull
git submodule update --init
```

Third, you will need to setup SVMTK if you have not already done so.  To do this you can execute

```
python3 -m pip install .
```

from within the SVMT directory.  If you have, instead, updated an existing SVMT installation
you should first clean any residual files by issuing the following command

```
python3 setup.py clean
```

It is advised, but not required, that you use a virtual environment for python.  (see [https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html] for instructions on using a python virtual environment)

You may see warnings as the setup process runs; these warnings arise from the CGAL source code, which is used by SVMTK, and are no cause for concern.

Finally, you can test your SVMTK installation by running

```
pytest -v tests
```

Note that, if you do not use a virtual environment, you may need to preface the above commands, for setting up and testing SVMTK, with the `sudo' keyword.  Thus,

```
sudo python3 setup.py install
sudo python3 setup.py clean
```

If the test is successful you should see the following output

```
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Ran 43 tests in XXXX s

OK
```

Also check the installation with any of the examples in `examples/`

## Docker

There is a Dockerfile in the directory `docker/`.

For more information on how to use docker, take a look at the docker tutorial:
[https://docs.docker.com/get-started/]

## Build instructions on SAGA HPC Cluster

```
export PROJECT_HOME=path-to-base-install-dir

module load Python/3.7.4-GCCcore-8.3.0 CMake/3.13.3-GCCcore-8.2.0 GCC/8.3.0 Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0 Eigen/3.3.7 MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua

export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local:/cluster/software/Eigen/3.3.7:/cluster/software/Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0:/cluster/software/MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0:/cluster/software/GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0

cd SVMTK/external/pybind11/
mkdir build
cd build/

cmake -DPYBIND11_TEST=off -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local ..
make install

cd ../..
curl -sL https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/download/releases%2FCGAL-5.0.3/CGAL-5.0.3.tar.xz | tar -xJf -
cd CGAL-5.0.3/
mkdir build
cd build/

cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local -DWITH_Eigen3:BOOL=ON .. && make -j4
make install

cd ../../../
mkdir -p $PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/
export PYTHONPATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH
python setup.py install --prefix=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local
```

### Running SVMTK on SAGA HPC Cluster

```
export PROJECT_HOME=path-to-base-install-dir

module load Python/3.7.4-GCCcore-8.3.0 CMake/3.12.1 GCC/8.3.0 Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0 Eigen/3.3.7 MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua

export PYTHONPATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH

python -c "import SVMTK"
```

## About

SVMTK is written by Lars Magnus Valnes and Jakob Schreiner

Commit message:

v2.0.0 (#32)
* Bug fix

* Preperation for v2.0, beta update

* Fix error

* Add convergence critera functions

* Fix failed test

* Updated code and dependencies

* Update cgal submodule

* Update correct cgal version

* Update cmake and workflow

* Update workflow

* Update CMakeLists

* Fixing errors

* Version 2.0

* Fixed issue

* Fixed issues with tests

* Skip unresolved test

* Added tests

README.md, after:

# SurfaceVolumeMeshingToolKit

Surface Volume Meshing Toolkit (SVMTK) is a Python frontend for specific 2D and 3D mesh generation methods in the Computational Geometry Algorithms Library [(CGAL)](https://www.cgal.org/).

SVMTK was designed to create volume meshes of soft organic tissue surfaces, like the human brain, with the option to repair unphysical errors on the surfaces.


## Installation

First, ensure that all of the prerequisites needed by SVMTK are installed.  Installation instructions for all of the SVMTK requirements can be found in [REQUIREMENTS.md](REQUIREMENTS.md)

Next, clone the SVMTK repository by

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/SVMTK/SVMTK
```

If you have already installed SVMTK, you can update your installation with the following command executed in the /SVMTK directory

```
git pull
git submodule update --init
```

Third, you will need to setup SVMTK if you have not already done so.  To do this you can execute

```
python3 -m pip install .
```

from within the SVMTk directory. If you are installing SVMTk system-wide on your computer, then for newer version of python>=3.12, 
the option `{:.--break-system-packages} should be used. 

```
python3 -m pip install . --break-system-packages
```

It is advised, but not required, that you use a virtual environment for python.  (see [https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html] for instructions on using a python virtual environment)

You may see warnings as the setup process runs; these warnings arise from the CGAL source code, which is used by SVMTk, and are no cause for concern.

### Checking the installation

The tests can be compiled with the following command:   
```
python3 -m pip install .[test] --config-settings=cmake.define.CMAKE_BUILD_TESTING=ON
```

Finally, you can test your SVMTk installation by running

```
pytest -v tests
```

If the test is successful you should see the following output

```
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Ran 43 tests in XXXX s

OK
```

Also check the installation with any of the examples in `examples/`

## Docker

There is a Dockerfile in the directory `docker/`.

For more information on how to use docker, take a look at the docker tutorial:
[https://docs.docker.com/get-started/]

## Anaconda 

SVMTk can also be installed from conda-forge[https://github.com/conda-forge/svmtk-feedstock] with the following code. 

```
conda create --name SVMTk-env python=3.9
conda activate SVMTk-env
conda install -c conda-forge svmtk 
```

## Build instructions on SAGA HPC Cluster

```
export PROJECT_HOME=path-to-base-install-dir

module load Python/3.7.4-GCCcore-8.3.0 CMake/3.13.3-GCCcore-8.2.0 GCC/8.3.0 Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0 Eigen/3.3.7 MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua

export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local:/cluster/software/Eigen/3.3.7:/cluster/software/Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0:/cluster/software/MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0:/cluster/software/GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0

cd SVMTK/external/pybind11/
mkdir build
cd build/

cmake -DPYBIND11_TEST=off -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local ..
make install

cd ../..
curl -sL https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/download/releases%2FCGAL-5.0.3/CGAL-5.0.3.tar.xz | tar -xJf -
cd CGAL-5.0.3/
mkdir build
cd build/

cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local -DWITH_Eigen3:BOOL=ON .. && make -j4
make install

cd ../../../
mkdir -p $PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/
export PYTHONPATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH
python setup.py install --prefix=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local
```

### Running SVMTK on SAGA HPC Cluster

Outdated 
```
export PROJECT_HOME=path-to-base-install-dir

module load Python/3.7.4-GCCcore-8.3.0 CMake/3.12.1 GCC/8.3.0 Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0 Eigen/3.3.7 MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua

export PYTHONPATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH

python -c "import SVMTK"
```

## About

SVMTK is written by Lars Magnus Valnes and Jakob Schreiner
