docs/source/Installation.rst, before:

.. highlight:: sh

.. _Installationdoc:

Installation
=================================

First, ensure that all of the prerequisites needed by SVMTK are installed.  Installation instructions for all of the SVMTK requirements can be found in 
:ref:`Requirementsdoc`.

Next, clone the SVMT repository by:: 

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/SVMTK/SVMTK

If you have already installed SVMTK you can update your installation with the following command executed in the /SVMTK directory::

   git pull origin master
   git submodule update --init

Third, you will need to setup SVMTK if you have not already done so.  To do this you can execute::

   python3 setup.py install

from within the SVMT directory.  If you have, instead, updated an existing SVMT installation 
you should first clean any residual files by issuing the following command::

   python3 setup.py clean

It is advised, but not required, that you use a virtual environment `Link <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`_.

You may see warnings as the setup process runs; these warnings arise from the CGAL source code, which is used by SVMTK, and are no cause for concern.

Finally, you can test your SVMTK installation by running::

   python3 setup.py test

Note that, if you do not use a virtual environment, you may need to preface the above commands, for setting up and testing SVMTK, with the ``sudo`` keyword.  
Thus,::

   sudo python3 setup.py install
   sudo python3 setup.py clean

If the test is successful you should see the following output 

`----------------------------------------------------------------------`

`Ran 43 tests in XXXX s`

`OK`

Also check the installation with any of the examples in `examples/`


.. _Dockerdoc:

Docker
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There is a Dockerfile in the main directory.

For more information on how to use docker, take a look at the docker `tutorial <https://docs.docker.com/get-started/>`_.

Build instructions on SAGA HPC Cluster
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The following code is used to build SVMTK on SAGA HPC Cluster::

   export PROJECT_HOME=path-to-base-install-dir

   module load Python/3.7.4-GCCcore-8.3.0 CMake/3.13.3-GCCcore-8.2.0 GCC/8.3.0 Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0 Eigen/3.3.7 MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua

   export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local:/cluster/software/Eigen/3.3.7:/cluster/software/Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0:/cluster/software/MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0:/cluster/software/GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0

   cd SVMTK/external/pybind11/

   mkdir build

   cd build/

   cmake -DPYBIND11_TEST=off -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local ..

   make install

   cd ../..

   curl -sL https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/download/releases%2FCGAL-5.0.3/CGAL-5.0.3.tar.xz | tar -xJf -

   cd CGAL-5.0.3/

   mkdir build

   cd build/

   cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local -DWITH_Eigen3:BOOL=ON .. && make -j4

   make install

   cd ../../../

   mkdir -p $PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/

   export PYTHONPATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH

   python setup.py install --prefix=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local

Running SVMTK on SAGA HPC Cluster::

   export PROJECT_HOME=path-to-base-install-dir

   module load Python/3.7.4-GCCcore-8.3.0 CMake/3.12.1 GCC/8.3.0 Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0 Eigen/3.3.7 MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua

   export PYTHONPATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH

   python -c "import SVMTK"

.. raw:: latex

    \newpage

Commit message:

v2.0.0 (#32)
* Bug fix

* Preperation for v2.0, beta update

* Fix error

* Add convergence critera functions

* Fix failed test

* Updated code and dependencies

* Update cgal submodule

* Update correct cgal version

* Update cmake and workflow

* Update workflow

* Update CMakeLists

* Fixing errors

* Version 2.0

* Fixed issue

* Fixed issues with tests

* Skip unresolved test

* Added tests

docs/source/Installation.rst, after:

.. highlight:: sh

.. _Installationdoc:

Installation
=================================

First, ensure that all of the prerequisites needed by SVMTK are installed.  Installation instructions for all of the SVMTK requirements can be found in 
:ref:`Requirementsdoc`.

Next, clone the SVMTk repository by:: 

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/SVMTK/SVMTK

If you have already installed SVMTK you can update your installation with the following command executed in the /SVMTK directory::

   git pull origin master
   git submodule update --init

Third, you will need to setup SVMTK if you have not already done so.  To do this you can execute::

   python3 setup.py install

from within the SVMTk directory. If you are installing SVMTk system-wide on your computer, then for newer version of python>=3.12, 
the option :code:`--break-system-packages` should be used::

    python3 -m pip install . --break-system-packages

After updating the SVMTk installation, you should first clean any residual files by issuing the following command::

   python3 setup.py clean

It is advised, but not required, that you use a virtual environment `Link <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`_.

You may see warnings as the setup process runs; these warnings arise from the CGAL source code, which is used by SVMTK, and are no cause for concern.

Finally, you can test your SVMTK installation by running::

   python3 setup.py test

Note that, if you do not use a virtual environment, you may need to preface the above commands, for setting up and testing SVMTK, with the ``sudo`` keyword.  
Thus,::

   sudo python3 setup.py install
   sudo python3 setup.py clean

If the test is successful you should see the following output 

`----------------------------------------------------------------------`

`Ran 43 tests in XXXX s`

`OK`

Also check the installation with any of the examples in `examples/`


.. _Dockerdoc:

Docker
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There is a Dockerfile in the main directory.

For more information on how to use docker, take a look at the docker `tutorial <https://docs.docker.com/get-started/>`_.

.. _Anacondadoc:

Anaconda 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SVMTk can also be installed from `conda-forge <https://github.com/conda-forge/svmtk-feedstock>`_ with the following code::
     
     conda create --name SVMTk-env python=3.9
     conda activate SVMTk-env 
     conda install -c conda-forge svmtk 



Build instructions on SAGA HPC Cluster
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The following code is used to build SVMTK on SAGA HPC Cluster::

   export PROJECT_HOME=path-to-base-install-dir

   module load Python/3.7.4-GCCcore-8.3.0 CMake/3.13.3-GCCcore-8.2.0 GCC/8.3.0 Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0 Eigen/3.3.7 MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua

   export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local:/cluster/software/Eigen/3.3.7:/cluster/software/Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0:/cluster/software/MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0:/cluster/software/GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0

   cd SVMTK/external/pybind11/

   mkdir build

   cd build/

   cmake -DPYBIND11_TEST=off -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local ..

   make install

   cd ../..

   curl -sL https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/download/releases%2FCGAL-5.0.3/CGAL-5.0.3.tar.xz | tar -xJf -

   cd CGAL-5.0.3/

   mkdir build

   cd build/

   cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local -DWITH_Eigen3:BOOL=ON .. && make -j4

   make install

   cd ../../../

   mkdir -p $PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/

   export PYTHONPATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH

   python setup.py install --prefix=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local

Running SVMTK on SAGA HPC Cluster::

   export PROJECT_HOME=path-to-base-install-dir

   module load Python/3.7.4-GCCcore-8.3.0 CMake/3.12.1 GCC/8.3.0 Boost/1.71.0-GCC-8.3.0 Eigen/3.3.7 MPFR/4.0.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua GMP/6.1.2-GCCcore-8.3.0.lua

   export PYTHONPATH=$PROJECT_HOME/src/SVMTK/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH

   python -c "import SVMTK"

.. raw:: latex

    \newpage
